---
title: "Installing Elixir 1.2 on a Raspberry Pi"
layout: post
---
I've been playing with Elixir off and on over the past couple of months
and wanted a way to run some things using Elixir on my Raspberry Pi.
Sadly, there aren't any packages for Elixir that are up to date and work
on the Raspberry Pi. Due to the lack of packages, I compiled it from
source. Here's how I did it. I have both an original Raspberry Pi and a
Raspberry Pi 2 and the instructions below will work with both. We'll
assume you're the `pi` user on your Raspberry Pi and that you can run
commands as `root` using `sudo`.

We've got to start off building Erlang first, because the packages for
Raspbian Jesse are too old to support Elixir 1.2

1\. Install the necessary packages so we can build Erlang:

{% highlight shell %}
sudo apt-get install libssl-dev ncurses-dev m4 unixodbc-dev
{% endhighlight %}

2\. Download and extract the Erlang 18.2.1 release from erlang.org:

{% highlight shell %}
curl -O http://erlang.org/download/otp_src_18.2.1.tar.gz
tar xf otp_src_18.2.1.tar.gz
{% endhighlight %}

3\. Compile all the Erlang bits. We'll install Erlang into
   `/opt/erlang/18.2.1` which is just an arbitrary choice.

{% highlight shell %}
cd otp_src_18.2.1
./configure --prefix=/opt/erlang/18.2.1
make
sudo make install
{% endhighlight %}

[Erlang's install
documentation](https://github.com/erlang/otp/blob/maint/HOWTO/INSTALL.md)
is an excellent resource if you want to dig more into how to build and
install Erlang. For example, they recommend building and running the
smoke tests for the compiler, but I've chosen not to do that here. The
above commands come from their docs and do the following:

1. Go into the source directory
2. Set up a shell variable we'll use a few steps later
3. Build Erlang
4. Install the Erlang compiler and runtime into our chosen location.

Now that we have Erlang compiled and installed, it's time to install
Elixir. Fortunately, this process is much easier and much quicker.

1\. Download the precompiled release for the Elixir version we want.
{% highlight shell %}
curl -L -O https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/releases/download/v1.2.3/Precompiled.zip
{% endhighlight %}
2\. Create the path we're going to install Elixir into
{% highlight shell %}
sudo mkdir -p /opt/elixir/1.2.3
{% endhighlight %}
3\. Extract the Elixir release into its path
{% highlight shell %}
sudo unzip Precompiled.zip -d /opt/elixir/1.2.3
{% endhighlight %}

The last bit to get everything set up is to add both
`/opt/erlang/18.2.1/bin` and `/opt/elixir/1.2.3/bin` to your `$PATH`. In
my case, I just chose to hack `/etc/profile` directly. Due to the myriad
of ways this can be accomplished, I'm leaving this as an exercise to the
user.

Super huge thanks to @wtfleming for [their
post](https://wtfleming.github.io/2015/12/10/embedded-elixir-raspberry-pi)
about doing embedded work on a Raspberry Pi with Elixir. I took a lot of
what they wrote and extracted and built upon it while writing this post.
