---
layout: post
title: Redcarpet 2.3.0 now available!
---

# {{ page.title }}

[Robin](http://robin-dupret.com), [Vicent](http://vmg.im) ,and I are happy to announce the release of
redcarpet 2.3.0. Since the last release, we've made a lot of bug fixes and
closed many issues on Github. Big thanks to all [the
contributors][contributors] for the numerous pull requests we have merged and
for issues reported.

# New features

## Underline support

We can now pass a new option to the `Redcarpet::Markdown` object: `:underline`.
It allows you to parse underscored emphasis as underlines. For example, the code

```ruby
markdown = Redcarpet::Markdown.new(Redcarpet::Render::HTML, :underline => true)
```

renders the following markdown

```
This is *italic* and this is _underline_ when enabled
```

as

<div class="result">
This is <em>italic</em> and this is <u>underline</u> when enabled
</div>

## Google-code-prettify support

Passing the `:prettify` option to a renderer adds a `prettyprint` class to your
code blocks in order to make it work with google-code-prettify.

## Org-table like syntax support

Redcarpet now supports `+` (a plus sign) as line intersections instead of
pipes. It can be a pain to translate tables from other markup (if you work with
org mode for instance):

```
| Foo      | Bar            |
|----------+----------------|
| A column | A nice content |
```

## Disable indented code blocks

This version ships with a new options that allows you to disable indented code
blocks. You just need to pass the `:disable_indented_code_blocks` to a new
`Redcarpet::Markdown` object and there you go!

# Bug fixes

We've made several bug fixes and cleaned up some pieces of code. The main ones are:

* Add a `redcarpet_` prefix to some functions to prevent segmentation faults with
libraries which share the same function names, such as older versions of ruby-prof.
* Mark all symbols as hidden to avoid conflicts with other gems (such as houdini)

There are other changes, of course. Please see the [changelog][Changelog] for further information.

[contributors]: https://github.com/vmg/redcarpet/contributors
[changelog]: https://github.com/vmg/redcarpet/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md
